May 15th (#1)
tlandryIntact/climate-resilience-dwg: 2023-07_Pilot-ER/sections/04-03-dri.adoc

=== Intact Financial Corporation
Wildfire risk in Canada is prominent and even though major events do not occur every year, they can cause unprecedented damage. Costs from the wildfire events of summer 2021 in British Columbia reached $77 and $78 millions in insured damage at White Rock Lake and Lytton, respectively. Wildfire activity is expected to go up due to an increase in fire-prone conditions across the country. It is therefore essential that insurers build capacities to monitor wildfire risk and occurrence to protect customers and manage risk exposure.

> IFC's participation to this pilot was conducted by the Centre for Climate and Geospatial Analytics (CCGA), a team of experts operating at Intact Data Lab. The main focus of this participation is to better understand end-to-end hazard and risk modelling workflows, in turn supporting the climate services required for decision-making in the business. This participation is also intended to further open up Intact Lab to the outside world, by providing information on wildfire risks and climate resiliency in the context of the insurance industry. 

Reviewer: Is the IFC abbreviation detailed previously?

Author: Applied change

> IFC's participation to this pilot was conducted by the Centre for Climate and Geospatial Analytics (CCGA), a team of experts operating at Intact Data Lab. The main focus of this participation is to better understand end-to-end hazard and risk modelling workflows, in turn supporting the climate services required for decision-making in the business. This participation is also intended to further open up Intact Lab to the outside world, by providing information on wildfire risks and climate resiliency in the context of the insurance industry. 

Reviewer: We use "outside world" a lot internally, but perhaps we want to use something different here.

Author: Good catch, but here I think it's fine to use the expression "externally". Always easier to memorize to explain.

==== About Us
Intact is the largest provider of Property & Casualty (P&C) insurance in Canada. Its purpose is to help people, businesses and society prosper in good times and be resilient in bad times. The company has been on the front lines of climate change with our customers for more than a decade – getting them back on track and helping them adapt. As extreme weather is going to get worse over the next decade, Intact intends to double down on adapting to this changing environment and be better prepared for floods, wildfire and extreme heat. 

> With close to 500 data, AI, machine learning and pricing experts, the Intact Data Lab has deployed almost 300 AI models in production to-date, helping transform outperformance advantage. It is focused on improving risk selection and making  operations as efficient as possible while creating outstanding interactions 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With close to 500 experts in data, AI, machine learning and pricing, the Intact Data Lab has deployed almost 300 AI models in production to-date, helping transform outperformance advantage. It is focused on improving risk selection and making operations as efficient as possible while creating outstanding interactions 
```

> With close to 500 data, AI, machine learning and pricing experts, the Intact Data Lab has deployed almost 300 AI models in production to-date, helping transform outperformance advantage. It is focused on improving risk selection and making  operations as efficient as possible while creating outstanding interactions 

Reviewer: Not sure what you mean by "helping transform outperformance advantage".

Author: Corporate lingo taken straight from annual report. I might just cut the sentence.

> with customers. Within Intact’s Data Lab, the Centre for Climate and Geospatial Analytics (CCGA) uses weather, climate, and geospatial data along with machine learning models to develop risk maps and other specialized products to the business.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with customers. Within Intact’s Data Lab, the Centre for Climate and Geospatial Analytics (CCGA) uses weather, climate, and geospatial data along with machine learning models and claims data to develop risk maps and other specialized products to the business.
```

==== Scope of Work
The project centered the efforts around these challenges:

>  * Identify current usages of wildfire risk maps at Intact by interviewing various business units;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Identify current usages of wildfire maps at Intact by interviewing various business units;
```

 * Revisit and update previous wildfire hazard map, using external open data sources;
 * Identify and seek collaboration opportunities with pilot participants;
 * Inform internal architectural, infrastructure and procurement processes of new geospatial standards and trends;
 * Identify and develop insurance wildfires risk use cases, to build Disaster and Climate Resilience.

These activities should, when possible, align with the best practices and standards of the OGC, as well as current and proposed themes in OGC's DWG.

==== Approach

> To develop its component, Intact migrated its previous proprietary wildfire hazard model to a new private on-premise data science environment. For all key inputs to the model, external connections to several open data repositories were established. To facilitate these access tests, early in the project, several public open source - climate model outputs, Earth observation, weather, geospatial - datasets were vetted by the appropriate cybersecurity boards. The tests informed experts of changes in platforms offerings, of new data products specifications and of current authoritative scientific references. The following datasets were accessed specifically to produce an updated wildfire hazard map (GeoTiff), and to compute regional risk indicator by postal codes (CSV):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To develop its component, Intact migrated its previous proprietary wildfire hazard model to a new private on-premise data science environment. For all key inputs to the model, external connections to several open data repositories were established. To facilitate these access tests, several public open source datasets, such as climate model outputs, Earth observations, weather and geospatial, were vetted by the appropriate cybersecurity boards. The tests informed experts of changes in platforms offerings, of new data products specifications and of current authoritative scientific references. The following datasets were accessed specifically to produce an updated wildfire hazard map (GeoTiff), and to compute regional risk indicator by postal codes (CSV):
```

  * National fire database polygon data
  * Fire Weather Index (FWI) daily maps
  * Land cover maps
  * Drought conditions
  * Digital Elevation Model (DEM)
  * Population density

> In parallel, CCGA polled IFC's stakeholders about current and potential uses of wildfire risk products within their operations. This information was used to identify use cases supporting this pilot project, as well as prospective proof-of-concepts for wildfire resiliency. Additionally, the team adopted a multi-hazard approach, seeking to apply learnings obtained from flood risk mapping, benchmarking and decision making. For instance, CCGA routinely manipulate exposure data representing insured risks throughout the country, as well as claims received for previous catastrophic events.

Reviewer: The term "multi-hazard" seems to suggest that we're developing a combined wildfire/flood model.

Author: Adjusted wording
